# Project Reseach

Bluetooth technology has been widely used devices that use wireless communication - such as wireless keyboards, mice, headphones, gaming contollers and many more. Since the aim of the project is to build a Bluetooth controller we conducted research into existing wireless Bluetooth keyboard and mice prodcuts whether they are built as physical hardware or software that can be installed on existing Bluetooth enabled devices.

There is a vast rangle of existing Bluetooth hardware from companies such as Logitech, Apple, Samsung, HP, etc. from which we can look at their design choices and use these considerations in designing our project. From this we discovered the following core features that good Keyboard and Mice have:

- Multiple device support for easy switching between devices.
- Programmable Keys
- Adjustable sensitivity support for mice.
- Compact design
- Integrated touch/ track pad

Since our Bluetooth contoller was not going to be build using physical hardware we needed to also research other products that are software based wireless controllers that can be instaled on existing devices. We found there are two types of Bluetooth controller apps - server or serverless.  <sub>[1]</sub> Since the latter doesn't require any other software other then the app itself we decided to make the MotionInput Bluetooth Contoller serverless due to it being much more user friendly then the server version.

## Bluetooth Keyboard & Mouse

There are many examples of Android Bluetooth Keybord and Mouse applications currently on the Google Play store. Bluetooth Keyboard & Mouse  <sub>[2]</sub> is the most advanced contoller currently available and is widely supported on the newest versions of Andorid. This app offers a large range of supported devices: Smartphone, Tablet, Computer or Android TV  <sub>[2]</sub> and lots of useful features:

- Keyboard and Mouse will scrolling support.
- 100+ Keyboad language layouts
- Multimedia mode to control playback, volume and navigation on media players.

Bluetooth Keyboard & Mouse uses the Bluetooth HID protocol to connect and comunicate with other devices. This means the serverless implementation can be achieved by using the HID class drivers that are already installed on the majority of systems. We can use this design choice in our project to achieve the intended serverless implementation. However, Bluetooth Keyboard & Mouse only supports manual trackpad and keyboard controller and its user interface can become convoluted and overly complex in some places. By implementing MotionInput as a new form of control and providing a more refinded UI we can surpass this product with out project in these areas.

## Links used for references (Need to do properly later)

[1] https://www.businessinsider.in/tech/news/how-to-use-an-android-phone-as-a-bluetooth-mouse-with-a-pc-or-laptop/articleshow/91920293.cms
[2] https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=io.appground.blek&hl=en&gl=US

## Technology Research

### Language

Firstly, we needed to pick a language we would use for development. Andoid development is done using two main languages: Java and Kotlin so we conducted research into both before making an informed decision. The optimal language should have efficient and fast runtime performance while also being readable to developers.

Java is a much more mature language being first released in 1996 and is highly popular whereas Kotlin has been introduced much later in 2016 <sub>[1]</sub> and is steadly rising in popularity for Android development. Due to Java's age it means there is a vast array of libraries, frameworks and tools available for development compared to Kotlin which is very useful for developers.

Both languages run on the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) inseatd of being compiled directly to native code which gives them fiarly similar performance <sub>[1]</sub> when compared to other compilers such as GCC. Java and Kotlin therefore only have minor performance differences:

- Kotlin’s generated bytecode contains assertions for nullity checks when using external dependencies, slowing performance compared to Java.
- Kotlin’s inline functions avoid a function call, improving performance, whereas Java invokes additional overhead memory.

On the whole, there are no significant Java and Kotlin differences related to performance and memory. <sub>[1]</sub>

Due to it's age Java can be seen as more stable then Kotlin. There is long term support for Java versions like 8 and 11, meaning that iif anything goes wrong with these versions they can be fixed with a patch. Whereas, Kotlin as no long-time supported versions of the same nature. <sub>[2]</sub>

Overall, we found there wre good advantages that could make the case for each language being the better choice. Kotlin has less memory overhead whereas Java is much more documented and supported. We decided to use Java for our project due to our team all already having experience with the language and therefore already know it's syntax meaning less time would need to be spent learning a new language and because of it's current superior documentation and support.

### Android SDK vs. Flutter

Both Android SDK and Flutter are built by Google and used in the development of applications, however, Android SDK is used only to build native Android applications whereas Flutter enables cross platform development from a single codebase. <sub>[3]</sub> Since our project only focuses on Android applications both would be a suitable choice.

Performance is an important factor in choosing the most appropriate SDK. Android SDK apps are known for their superior performance due to being written in platform specific languages like Java or Kotlin. On the other hand, Flutter uses a rendering engine called Skia which enables high performamnce graphics and animations. However, this doen't quite achieve native performance and Flutter apps tend to be generally slower then Android SDK apps overall. <sub>[3]</sub>

Due to Android SDK being around for much longer it has a vast range of libraries, frameworks and resources to help with Android development. Whereas, Flutter is much younger and therefore is less mature with less resources available to be used by the developeer. <sub>[3]</sub> Therefore, at this time building Android SDK applications may be easier for developers who have less experiance in building Android apps.

Research has shown that Flutter apps are generally more storage invasive then native Android SDK apps, this makes their download much larger. The research found that the same app built in Flutter was 4.7 MB where as the Java or Kotlin counterpart was only 0.5 MB. <sub>[4]</sub> Since our project only needs to build apps for Android we should consider if the additional overhead produced by Flutter is actually necessary.

Overall, we found the Android SDK built using Android Studio IDE would be most suitable for our project. This was becuase it's performance advantage over Flutter would be beneicial in increasing the usability of the end product. The added benefit of much more extensive resources available for Anroid SDK further increased it's suitability for our project.

## Technical Decisions

After conducting extensive background reseach we were able to make the following decisions on how the MotionInput Bluetooth controller would be built:

<div class="img-center">

| Type                                     | Decision         |
|------------------------------------------|------------------|
| Language                                 | Java             |
| SDK                                      | Android SDK      |
| Integrated Development Environment (IDE) | Android Studio   |
| JSON Library                             | Jackson          |
| Documentation Generation                 | JavaDoc          |
| Build Tool                               | Gradle           |
| Design Language                          | Materials Design |
| Testing Framework                        | JUnit            |

</div>


## Links used for references (Need to do properly later)

[1] https://www.toptal.com/kotlin/kotlin-vs-java
[2] https://blog.logrocket.com/kotlin-vs-java-android-development/
[3] https://stackshare.io/stackups/android-vs-flutter#:~:text=In%20summary%2C%20Android%20SDK%20allows,model%20and%20a%20growing%20community.
[4] https://www.browserstack.com/guide/flutter-vs-android-studio
